Problem Statement :
1.A publishing company wants to publish a book on forts built before the 15th century but are still occupied. 
They need a list of such forts along with their founding dates and ownership details.
db.forts.find({
  occupied: true,
  "details.founding_date": { $lt: ISODate("1500-01-01") } // Before 15th century
}, {
  name: 1,
  "details.founding_date": 1,
  ownership: 1 // Projection to include ownership details
})

2.A travel blogger is compiling a list of forts with images available. They need to know which forts have more 
than 5 images and need a list of these forts along with the image URLs.

3.An environmental organization wants to study forts with a height greater than 20 feet and an area larger than 
10 acres. They need a summary of such forts, including their height, area, and location details.

4.A cultural heritage organization wants to identify forts associated with significant historical figures. 
They need the details of forts built by any specific dynasty and the battles they were involved in.

5.An educational portal wants to list all forts that are part of the "Reddi Kingdom" and were later controlled 
by other entities. They need details of the transitions of control.

6.A conservation group is planning to request funding for fort restoration. They need to identify forts that are 
currently in ruins and have a significant historical background. They need the name, founding date, and battles/wars associated with such forts.

7.A geographic information system (GIS) company wants to create a map showing the coordinates of all forts built in
 the 14th century or earlier. They need the names and coordinates of these forts.

8.A historian needs to find the details of forts which were controlled by the Government of Andhra Pradesh and have
 been reconstructed or are in ruins. Additionally, they need the total count of such forts and their average height.

9.A tourism company wants to create a tour package that includes all forts built by the Reddy Kingdom and fought 
in at least three major battles/wars. They need a list of these forts with their details and the battles/wars they were involved in.

10.An academic researcher is studying the geographical spread of forts. They need to identify all forts located 
in districts starting with the letter 'V'. They also need the total area these forts cover combined.